[Music]
Hi
I'm Kathy from Katalyst Fitness and
Nutrition, and today I wanted to talk to
you
about protein and why it's so beneficial
for weight loss. So,
when you're trying to lose weight,
protein is the key to getting you
to your goal. Research shows that most
women
may eat too little protein and the
benefits of a higher daily protein
intake include
weight loss, increased metabolism,
preserving your muscle
as we age, and then maintaining a lean
fat burning physique, which is what we're
after.
So proteins are made up of amino acids
and
these amino acids are needed for your
muscles, for your blood,
skin, hair, nails, and your internal organs.
Your body produces some of these amino
acids, but
you must get the others known as the
essential amino acids through your diet.
So for the most part, eating animal
protein like meat
protein like meat,
fish, eggs, or dairy every day will
provide all the essential amino acids
that you need in the proper balance. So,
to lose weight
to lose weight,
you need to consume fewer calories than
you burn, and eating protein
can increase the number of calories that
you burn by increasing your metabolic
rate -
that's your calories out and then
reducing your appetite, which are your
calories in.
So this is due to the thermic effect of
food.
It actually takes more energy to process
and digest
protein than it does to process carbs or
fats, and that's going to lead to you
burning as much as 80 to 100 calories a
day just by eating protein.
So the biggest benefit of protein for
weight loss is the satiety factor.
So you're going to feel full longer and
reduce your appetite, which again
leads to a reduction in your overall
calories. So eating more protein
makes it way easier to stick to any
weight loss diet.
And there was a study that showed women
over 12 weeks who increased their
protein intake
to 30 percent of their total calories,
ate 441 fewer calories per day
and lost 11 pounds over that 12 weeks,
just by eating more protein.
So, how much protein do you need? For
weight loss, a protein intake at around
30 percent of your calories
seems to be ideal, due to the increase in
the metabolic rate that we discussed
and the decrease in hunger and the
reduction of overall calories.
So most studies suggest that 0.7
to 1 gram per pound of body weight is
sufficient. The more active that you are,
the more protein that you would need.
So, if your job is physically demanding,
or you do any sort of regular exercise,
you're going to need to eat more protein.
So fueling your body properly with
protein is going to get you your best
results for weight loss
while maintaining muscle and increasing
your metabolism.